the government of Benjamin Netanyahu is
facing mounting pressure within Israel
amid the ongoing conflict in Gaza and
the increasingly dire humanitarian
situation there this was the scene in
Tel Aviv late Saturday where thousands
of people gathered to protest against
the country's leadership they are
calling for new elections it's now more
than 3 months since Israel launched its
counter offensive in Gaza after the
unprecedented crossboard attacks by
Hamas on October 7th Hamas is classified
as a terrorist organization by multiple
countries let's talk to our DW
correspondent in Jerusalem Rebecca
ritters Rebecca great to see you again
uh thousands of people are protesting
against Israel's leadership what exactly
are the demonstrators
demanding yeah that's right Michael we
saw multiple protests across the country
country last night that one in Tel Aviv
that you speak of that is certainly the
largest of the ones that we saw
yesterday and it's something we've been
seeing every week uh since the beginning
of this conflict people coming out there
to demand uh largely different strategy
to the way that the hostage situation is
being dealt with and that's something
those calls growing louder and louder
the longer uh people these hostages
remain inside Gaza fam is becoming
increasingly anxious and increasingly
angry towards the government we're
definitely seeing calls for fresh
elections calls for the government to
stand down we saw other protests in
other cities such as hia even in uh
caesaria which is where prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu has a private
residence there were people outside his
house campaigning protesting uh for him
to stand down people increasingly across
Israel frustrated with the way that he's
been handling this many saying that he's
doing everything he can to save his own
political bacon and he's not taking uh
what they see is the most important
thing of course the hostages uh and
trying to get the hostages out of Gaza
he's not taking that seriously enough uh
we're also seeing other protests we saw
um protests yeah calling for him uh to
stand down anti- government protests but
these are in no by no means anti-war
protests there is still a great deal of
support for the war aims the war aim of
dismantling and destroying Hamas
completely making sure they are no
longer a threat to Israeli society and
Israelis but the way in which that Benin
Netanyahu is carrying these aims out is
something that people are becoming
increasingly angry about Rebecca
Netanyahu issued a statement Saturday
essentially saying he opposed A
Palestinian sovereignty it seems to
contradict US President Joe Biden's
description of his telephone
conversation with Netanyahu
earlier yeah these statements are not a
surprise for Benjamin Netanyahu he said
it even before uh this whole situation
began on October 7 this was a
longstanding stand of his saying that
that Israel needed to maintain uh
security over the entire region and that
uh runs in conflict with a Palestinian
state or Palestinian sovereignty
certainly uh that's something that he's
maintained we have been seeing a lot of
pressure from the US that a two-state
solution that a diplomatic solution is
the only way forward and that things
must start to develop towards forming a
Palestinian State and then you know
there was of course a lot of
disagreement people thinking that that
was not how the government was was U
leaning here in Israel but then we had
that conversation between US President
Biden and Netanyahu on Friday and them
you know the White House certainly
signaling that Benjamin Netanyahu made
noises or or or made suggestions in that
phone call that he was open to that
two-state solution as you say now coming
out with conflicting messaging saying
that he isn't that's really you know
flying in the face of US President Biden
he staunches Ally Biden uh you know
through his own political um you know it
has not looked good for him domestically
politically to stand so strongly uh by
Israel he's cing a lot of flak both in
the US and internationally for it and
yet he maintains that and now we see
prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu coming
out against his statements so very
interesting to see where will all lead
Michael that's Rebecca ritters in
Jerusalem many thanks
Rebecca and for more on this we can
speak now to abian she is an American
Israeli living in Tel Aviv two members
of her family were killed in the October
7th terror attack three others were
taken hostage two were released but one
is still being held hostage in Gaza Abby
thank you so much for taking the time uh
to speak to us um can you tell me more
about what happened to your
family
thank you for having me yes on October
7th um in the middle of the chaos we
understood from family text messages on
Whatsapp that our family was hearing
gunfire and Arabic and um people being
killed around them and that they were
scared for their lives and later that
evening when the military finally got to
near Oz the kots in which they lived uh
there were five family members that were
unaccounted for and are are working
assumption was that they were missing or
had been taken hostage on October 8th we
had video confirmation of my cousin's
son in the hands of Kamas it was a video
that Hamas indeed uploaded um and so
then we we went really with the notion
that they had been taken hostage 10 days
into the war we got confirmation that
two of the bodies had been found uh not
on the kots and that my 80-year-old
cousin Carmela Dan and her 13-year-old
granddaughter had been murdered by Hamas
and 52 days in into the war during the
kind of big exchange of prisoners for
hostages my cousins two children
12-year-old Aras and 16-year-old Sahar
were returned but their father ofer who
is 53 remains on day 107 in uh captivity
okay well thank you for sharing that
story I know it must be incredibly
painful to keep keep reliving it um uh
just as regards the freeing of the
hostages and the pressure that's coming
along uh onto the government in these
big demon ations we were just reporting
on um do you think that the government
is going about freeing them in the right
way does there need to be a change in
policy
somehow I think that there's some sort
of split in the war cabinet of people
who believe that the hostages should be
the first priority and people who
believe that the um eradication of Hamas
should be the first priority I
think as a member of a hostage family as
someone who lives in Israel that
bringing the hostages home has to be be
the first priority that there's no
winning there's no success which I don't
think there's winning in the situation
anyway but there's no way forward for
Israel without the release of every
single one of the hostages alive and
dead and as regards the pro protest and
and the hostage families I was reporting
myself recently in Israel and these
families are an emerging political force
that the government can't really ignore
do you think they're going to be able to
have effect on on government policy as
they continue to
demonstrate I hope so I mean we're we're
after a year of protesting in this
country with regard to the judicial
reform and I think in the aftermath of
October 7th we saw a lot of unity uh
with which hadn't been the case and I
think now we're seeing this split again
which is these families are saying you
have to put the hostages you have to put
our family members first and and the
call for net Yahoo to step aside and for
elections I think that as Israelis we're
in one of our hardest moments because we
as a country want peace we want a
two-state solution we want to live next
to a Palestinian state that is being run
by a government to acknowledges Israel's
right to exist and the main challenge to
that is that we don't have a partner at
that table you talk of a two-state
solution I you know President Joe Biden
has been saying that he still thinks
it's a viable thing and thinks that
prime minister B Netanyahu believes it
is as well however Netanyahu just came
out uh shortly after speaking with Biden
on the phone and saying that's not at
all the case as an American citizen
would you like to see your American
government do more to to pressure Israel
to bring it around to that to that
perspective you're
describing I think so I think at this
point that Netanyahu is the only one
that's going to be able to come to the
table to to make an agreement to release
the hostages to at this point right and
so if Biden and his um government can
help us get there then and I can tell
you as an American this our government
in the United States has done everything
possible to make Israel feel supported
to make American families of hostages
feel supported carela my cousin that was
murdered was in American as well and
they have shown up with full force and I
think America and Israel have always
been strong partners and this is the
time to continue to pressure Israel to
work in the right direction and for me
as a a citizen of both countries that
direction has to be the freeing of
hostages no matter what right now that's
the only step forward and I think that's
what has to be both a priority for the
United States and for
Israel okay Abby thank you so much for
your time and for sharing your story
Abby on talking to us from Tel
Aviv
thanks more than 25,000 people have been
killed in Gaza according to the Hamas
controlled Health Ministry and there are
are growing fears of widespread famine
and disease among those still trapped
there the United Nations is calling for
the Urgent scaling up of humanitarian
Aid and basic supplies it says only 15
bakeries are still functional across the
entire strip one group of volunteers is
working to try to fill the
Gap it was a staple before the war now
bread is the main source of food for
gazin but it's in short supply these
International Volunteers in Rafa have
set up a makeshift Bakery to help feed
displaced people still they can't keep
up with the
demand the bakery produces 22,000 loaves
of bread a day we are currently in the
process of establishing a second Bakery
to double the production and serve a
larger number of displaced people in the
Gaza
Strip around 1 million people have fled
to Rafa to escape Israeli bombardments
according to the United
Nations Rafa's border crossing with
Egypt is the main Lifeline for basic
supplies like food and water but only a
fraction of what's needed is getting
[Music]
in as famine looms parents feel
helpless what matters most for a child
is to
eat they want to eat more than two three
or four times a day because they play
outside the tent in the sun all day and
come back
hungry according to the UN the
nutritional needs of children and
pregnant women are not being met most
babies and toddlers are surviving on
just bread and
milk fighting in Gaza is hampering vital
Aid deliveries humanitarian groups are
appealing to Israel to speed up
inspections of Aid convoys and to reopen
border crossings that were closed in the
wake of the October 7 Terror attacks by
Hamas